
# Common functions used for generation a MAC (message authentication code).


# MAC_API_FILE Macro

## C

```c
#define MAC_API_FILE

```

 @file
 @copyright Copyright (c) 2020 Silex Insight. All Rights reserved.


# Feeds data to be used for MAC generation.


# SX_MAC_FEED Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_MAC_FEED)(struct sxmac c, const char datain, size_t sz);
#define SX_MAC_FEED ((FUNC_SX_MAC_FEED)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_MAC_FEED)))

```

 The function will return immediately.

 In order to start the operation SX_MAC_GENERATE() must be called.

## Parameters

 [inout] c MAC operation context 

## Parameters

 [in] datain data to be processed, with size \p sz 

## Parameters

 [in] sz size, in bytes, of data to be processed  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_TOO_BIG  @return ::SX_ERR_FEED_COUNT_EXCEEDED  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @pre | sx_mac_create_() function must be called first  
| @remark | this function can be called even if data size, \p sz, is 0. |
| @remark | this function can be called multiple times to feed multiple chunks  scattered in memory. 


# Starts MAC generation operation.


# SX_MAC_GENERATE Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_MAC_GENERATE)(struct sxmac c, char mac);
#define SX_MAC_GENERATE ((FUNC_SX_MAC_GENERATE)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_MAC_GENERATE)))

```

 This function is used to start MAC generation.
 The function will return immediately.

 The result will be transfered only after the operation is successfully
 completed. The user shall check operation status with SX_MAC_STATUS()
 or SX_MAC_WAIT().

## Parameters

 [inout] c MAC operation context 

## Parameters

 [out] mac generated MAC  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_TOO_SMALL  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @pre | SX_MAC_FEED() function must be called first  
| @remark | if used with context saving(last chunk), the fed data size for  the last chunk can not be 0 


# Resumes MAC operation in context-saving.


# SX_MAC_RESUME_STATE Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_MAC_RESUME_STATE)(struct sxmac c);
#define SX_MAC_RESUME_STATE ((FUNC_SX_MAC_RESUME_STATE)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_MAC_RESUME_STATE)))

```

 This function shall be called when using context-saving to load the state
 that was previously saved by SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE() in the sxmac operation
 context \p c. It must be called with the same sxmac operation context \p c
 that was used with SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE(). It will reserve all hardware
 resources required to run the partial MAC operation.

 After successful execution of this function, the context \p c can be passed
 to any of the block cipher functions, except the sx_mac_create_()
 functions.

## Parameters

 [inout] c block cipher operation context  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_CONTEXT_SAVING_NOT_SUPPORTED  @return ::SX_ERR_INVALID_KEYREF  @return ::SX_ERR_INVALID_KEY_SZ  @return ::SX_ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_HW  @return ::SX_ERR_RETRY  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @pre | sx_mac_create_() and SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE() functions  must be called before, for first part of the message. |
| @pre | must be called for each part of the message(besides first), before  sx_mac_crypt() or SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE().  
| @remark | the user must not change the key until all parts of the message to  be encrypted/decrypted are processed. 


# Starts a partial MAC operation.


# SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE)(struct sxmac c);
#define SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE ((FUNC_SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_MAC_SAVE_STATE)))

```

 This function is used to start a partial MAC operation on data fed using
 SX_MAC_FEED().
 The function will return immediately.

 The partial result will be transfered only after the operation is
 successfully completed. The user shall check operation status with
 SX_MAC_STATUS() or SX_MAC_WAIT().

## Parameters

 [inout] c block cipher operation context  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_CONTEXT_SAVING_NOT_SUPPORTED  @return ::SX_ERR_TOO_SMALL  @return ::SX_ERR_WRONG_SIZE_GRANULARITY  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @pre | sx_mac_crypt() should be called first.  
| @remark | the user must not change the key until all parts of the message to  be encrypted/decrypted are processed. 


# Waits until the given MAC generation operation has finished


# SX_MAC_WAIT Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_MAC_WAIT)(struct sxmac c);
#define SX_MAC_WAIT ((FUNC_SX_MAC_WAIT)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_MAC_WAIT)))

```

 This function returns when the MAC generation operation was successfully
 completed, or when an error has occurred that caused the operation to
 terminate. The return value of this function is the operation status.

 After this call, all resources have been released and \p c cannot be used
 again unless sx_mac_create_() is used.

## Parameters

 [inout] c MAC generation operation context  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_DMA_FAILED  @return ::SX_ERR_INVALID_TAG   @see SX_MAC_STATUS().  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @remark | this function is blocking until operation finishes. 


# Returns the MAC generation operation status.


 If the operation is still ongoing, return ::SX_ERR_HW_PROCESSING.
 In that case, the user can retry later.

 When this function returns with a code different than ::SX_ERR_HW_PROCESSING,
 the MAC generation operation has ended and all resources used by MAC generation
 operation context \p c have been released. In this case, \p c cannot be used
 for a new operation until one of the sx_mac_create_() functions is
 called again.

## Parameters

 [inout] c MAC operation context  @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ  @return ::SX_ERR_HW_PROCESSING  @return ::SX_ERR_DMA_FAILED  @return ::SX_ERR_INVALID_TAG  | Param | Description |
|:----- |:----------- |

| @pre | SX_MAC_FEED() and SX_MAC_GENERATE() functions must be called first 

