# PDS Library Usage

PIC32CX-BZ2 Persistent Data Server\(PDS\) Library Usage

**Configuring the library**

There is no configuration of this library.

**Using the library**

**Defining Files and Directories**

In PDS particular pieces of persistent data are called files \(or items\), and groups of files are called directories. Note that directories are just the way to refer to particular files, and a file can belong to several directories at once. Files and directories contain the meta-information about the data that allows its maintenance within the NV – file descriptors and directory descriptors.

The PDS component defines a number of file units for individual stack parameters and directories to group files, for more subtle control. The application may define its own items.

**File and File Descriptor**

Each item which user wants to backup in a non-volatile memory and restore in case of power failure is treated as a FILE - actual item value with associated service information, FILE DESCRIPTOR. Each file could be accessed by it's ID a unique 16-bit value associated with a file. File descriptor keeps information about item's size and it's displacement in RAM and inside the NV storage.

All file descriptors should be placed in a special segment inside the MCU Flash memory - \[PDS\_FF\]. The PDS\_FILE\_DESCR\(\) macro is used to initialize descriptor and PDS\_DECLARE\_FILE\(\) macro is used to place descriptor to required segment.

A file descriptor consists of the following parts:

-   memoryId: memory identifier associated with a file
-   size: the size of file’s data
-   ramAddr: the pointer to item’s entity in RAM \(that is, to a variable holding file’s data\), if one exists, or NULL otherwise
-   fileMarks: file marks, specifying specific characteristics of the file.

    File marks may be set either to following values:

    -   SIZE\_MODIFICATION\_ALLOWED: indicates that size of the file can be different in new firmware image after over-the-air upgrade. Usually is set for files storing table data, such as binding table, group table and others.
    -   ITEM\_UNDER\_SECURITY\_CONTROL: no impact, works same as NO\_FILE\_MARKS
    -   NO\_FILE\_MARKS: no special characteristics for the file

A file descriptor tied to some data in RAM is defined by using the PDS\_DECLARE\_FILE macro in the code that may be used by both the stack and the application:

```
PDS_DECLARE_FILE(memoryId, size, ramAddr, fileMarks)
```

**Directory and Directory Descriptor**

PDS is able to operate with separate files or with file lists - DIRECTORIES. Directory nesting is allowed. Each directory should be provided with DIRECTORY DESCRIPTOR which keeps information about associated items. Directories could be accessed by 16-bit ID, different from already associated with files.

All directory descriptors should be placed in a special segment inside the MCU Flash memory - \[PDS\_FD\]. The PDS\_DECLARE\_DIR\(\) macro is used to place a directory to required segment.

Directory descriptors are special entities describing a group of file. A directory descriptor is defined in the code \(the stack’s or the application’s one\) and is placed to the separate flash memory segment.

The directory descriptor consists of the following parts:

-   list: pointer to the list of files IDs associated with the directory. This list should be placed in the flash memory \(by the use of the PROGMEM\_DECLARE macro – see an example below\).
-   filesCount: the amount of files associated with the directory
-   memoryId: memory identifier associated with the directory

A directory is declared via the PDS\_DECLARE\_DIR macro in the following way:

```
PDS_DECLARE_DIR(const PDS_DirDescr_t csGeneralParamsDirDescr) =
{
.list = CsGeneralMemoryIdsTable,
.filesCount = ARRAY_SIZE(CsGeneralMemoryIdsTable),
.memoryId = BC_GENERAL_PARAMS_MEM_ID
};
//Where CsGeneralMemoryIdsTable is the list of objects defined in the following way:
PROGMEM_DECLARE(const PDS_MemId_t CsGeneralMemoryIdsTable[]) =
{
CS_UID_MEM_ID,
CS_RF_TX_POWER_MEM_ID,
//other parameters in this list
}
```

****

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|PDS\_Init|initializes the Persistence Data Server|
|PDS\_InitItems|initializes the Persistence Data Server Items|
|PDS\_Restore|Restores data from non-volatile storage|
|PDS\_Store|Stores data in non-volatile memory in background, not blocking other processes|
|PDS\_DeleteAll|deletes data from non-volatile storage|
|PDS\_AddItemExcpetionFromDeleteAll|extempts the item from the Delete All command|
|PDS\_Delete|removes specified file records from NV Storage|
|PDS\_IsAbleToRestore|Checks if the specified PDS file or directory can be restored from non-volatile memory|
|PDS\_RegisterWriteCompleteCallback|registers the callback for the Item Write completion|
|PDS\_RegisterUpdateMemoryCallback|registers the callback for the Item update memory|
|PDS\_StoreItemTaskHandler|task that handles the store items into NV memory|
|PDS\_GetPendingItemsCount|gets the number of items pending in the PDS write queue|
|PDS\_GetItemDescr|gets the item descriptor for the given item ID|

-   **[ITEM\_ID\_TO\_MEM\_MAPPING Macro](GUID-183B334C-1BDF-4564-A870-F4C2BE978405.md)**  

-   **[ITEM\_UNDER\_SECURITY\_CONTROL Macro](GUID-D08972F4-21A8-4F0E-8273-03AC48C7F790.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_DECLARE\_ITEM Macro](GUID-7D9AC457-8781-4DAA-BEDB-6CA258BA5C59.md)**  

-   **[NO\_ITEM\_FLAGS Macro](GUID-4B67B429-8AD1-401B-A4C5-E80B38261F31.md)**  

-   **[NO\_FILE\_MARKS Macro](GUID-C51A10C8-084D-4BF8-A6F0-3EE59657C130.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_MAX\_FILE\_SIZE Macro](GUID-D6B3AF6D-9520-47FA-AC15-AE93D53328FC.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_DIRECTORY\_ID\_MASK Macro](GUID-C689652B-94C6-440A-90DC-152E945B54A1.md)**  

-   **[SIZE\_MODIFICATION\_ALLOWED Macro](GUID-0FEC3EB2-1308-4A1C-B574-9559D9EC3D32.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_MODULE OFFSET Macro](GUID-C7436175-9555-4084-8CC2-D745C53F113C.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_DataServerState\_t Enum](GUID-259CFA61-09A7-423C-8608-8494531680CC.md)**  

-   **[ItemIdToMemoryMapping\_t Struct](GUID-60770A63-E7A8-4C18-9B4D-1A78A64FAFC6.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_DirDescr\_t Struct](GUID-133C54E9-8E07-4D8E-BDC4-289780F9AAF2.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_Operation\_Offset\_t Struct](GUID-E2612D52-C312-4265-8EE8-A9EA4B8DDDC7.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_UpdateMemory\_t Struct](GUID-B0A065DE-8AA5-45D9-9564-74D2D6B2737A.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_AddItemExcpetionFromDeleteAll Function](GUID-2A4A2013-6E0B-4723-ACFA-4F47F89002D0.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_Delete Function](GUID-1F2868F0-CA59-47E2-80D0-16DF4E8A01CE.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_DeleteAll Function](GUID-8AADBB19-32FD-4C50-AE4F-482599F9D02F.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_GetItemDescr Function](GUID-F1364A8C-3E96-429B-A880-609E7A704762.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_GetPendingItemsCount Function](GUID-C9597087-8DE9-4755-9D6A-C93DF62BD1E1.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_Init Function](GUID-AAC3B8D6-B77A-4883-BE1B-0EA0BE4872BC.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_InitItems Function](GUID-B1E12C3C-2987-4791-BA2A-54F90EB76C38.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_IsAbleToRestore Function](GUID-C949561B-9512-4FF1-B590-1A41E6336777.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_RegisterUpdateMemoryCallback Function](GUID-FCE3BB9C-EE95-44A0-AD6B-699B9CF1395B.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_RegisterWriteCompleteCallback Function](GUID-6F51DFED-F916-4803-8B8F-0A9286A08226.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_Restore Function](GUID-7CAED737-9F28-458E-B9A3-1D20184705F0.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_Store Function](GUID-9FC50B7F-D694-4BE2-94AE-576D308FF56B.md)**  

-   **[PDS\_StoreItemTaskHandler Function](GUID-5A8DBB18-071C-4159-87F2-E34ED758FCB1.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[PIC32CX-BZ Persistent Data Server Component Library Help](GUID-D08C61D1-8CD6-4D2F-B74D-E58784C9042B.md)

