
# True Random Number Generator (TRNG)


# TRNG_API_H Macro

## C

```c
#define TRNG_API_H

```

 @file
 @copyright Copyright (c) 2020 Silex Insight. All Rights reserved.

 The TRNG uses the hardware to generate random number with a high
 level of entropy. It's intended to feed entropy into a DRBG.


# Configuration parameters for the TRNG */


struct sx_trng_config {

# FIFO level below which the module leaves the idle state to refill the FIFO


 In numbers of 128-bit blocks.

 Set to 0 to use default.
unsigned int wakeup_level;


# Number of clock cycles to wait before sampling data from the noise source

 Set to 0 to use default.
unsigned int init_wait;


# Number of clock cycles to wait before stopping the rings after the FIFO is full.

 Set to 0 to use default.
unsigned int off_time_delay;


# Clock divider for the frequency at which the outputs of the rings are sampled.

 Set to 0 to sample at APB interface clock frequency.
unsigned int sample_clock_div;
};


# TRNG initialization


# SX_TRNG_INIT Macro

## C

```c
typedef int (FUNC_SX_TRNG_INIT)(struct sx_trng ctx, const struct sx_trng_config config);
#define SX_TRNG_INIT ((FUNC_SX_TRNG_INIT)((uint32_t )(API_TABLE_BASE_ADDRESS + ATO_SX_TRNG_INIT)))

```
## Parameters

 [inout] ctx TRNG context to be used in other operations 

## Parameters

 [in] config pointer to optional configuration. NULL to use default.   @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_HW 


# Get random bytes


 When this function returns ::SX_OK, \p size random bytes have been
 written to the \p dst memory location. If not enough random bytes are
 available, the function does not write any data to \p dst and returns
 ::SX_ERR_INSUFFICIENT.

## Parameters

 [inout] ctx TRNG context to be used in other operations 

## Parameters

 [out] dst Destination in memory to copy \p size bytes to 

## Parameters

 [in] size length in bytes   @return ::SX_OK  @return ::SX_ERR_INSUFFICIENT  @return ::SX_ERR_HARDWARE_FAILURE 

