# PIC32CX-BZ2 Persistent Data Server Component Library Help

The PIC32CX-BZ2 Persistent Data Server Component Library provides interface for storing and restoring items into the Non volatile memory using wear leveling mechanism

**PERSISTENT DATA SERVER \(PDS\)**

The Persistent Data Server \(PDS\) component implements interfaces and functionality for storing and restoring data in a non-volatile \(NV\) memory storage.

In PDS particular pieces of persistent data are called files and groups of parameters are called directories.Following section describes how to define such persistent items and overview of PDS API functions that can be used to store and restore them.

User can specify parameters he\(she\) wants to backup in a non-volatile memory and restore in case of power failure. This service is provided by Persistent Data Server \(PDS\) module. The BitCloud \(TM\) stack also uses the same service for its internal structures.

The main feature behind the wear leveling PDS is the mechanism designed to extend the lifetime of the NV storage as well as to protect data from being lost when a reset occurs during writing to the NV. This mechanism is based on writing data evenly through the dedicated area, so that the storage’s lifetime in not limited by the number of reading and writing operations performed with more frequently used parameters. For this purpose, the non-volatile storage organized as a cyclic log with new versions of data being written at the end of the log, not in place where the previous versions of the same data are stored.

-   **[PDS Library Usage](GUID-A7B0958C-E476-48EA-9C30-DA83508CC577.md)**  
PIC32CX-BZ2 Persistent Data Server\(PDS\) Library Usage

