
# Status/error codes of sxsymcrypt functions


# STATUSCODES_API_FILE Macro

## C

```c
#define STATUSCODES_API_FILE

```

 @file
 @copyright Copyright (c) 2019 Silex Insight. All Rights reserved.


# The function or operation succeeded */


# Waiting on the hardware to process this operation */


# SX_ERR_HW_PROCESSING Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_HW_PROCESSING -1

```



# No hardware available for a new operation. Retry later. */


# No compatible hardware for this operation.


# SX_ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_HW Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_HW -3

```


 This error occurs if the dedicated hardware to execute the operation is not
 present, or hardware is present and operation not supported by it.

# Invalid authentication tag in authenticated decryption */


# Hardware DMA error


# SX_ERR_DMA_FAILED Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_DMA_FAILED -32

```


 Fatal error that should never happen. Can be caused by invalid or
 wrong addresses, RAM corruption, a hardware or software bug or system
 corruption.

# Fatal error, trying to call a function with an uninitialized object


# SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_UNITIALIZED_OBJ -33

```

 For example calling sx_aead_decrypt() with an sxaead object which
 has not been created yet with sx_aead_create_() function.

# Fatal error, trying to call an AEAD or block cipher create function with an


# SX_ERR_INVALID_KEYREF Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_INVALID_KEYREF -34

```

 uninitialized or invalid key reference.

 Examples: calling sx_blkcipher_create_aesecb() with a key reference which
 has not been initialized yet with sx_keyref_load_material() or sx_keyref_load_by_id()
 function, sx_keyref_load_material() was called with key NULL or size 0, or
 sx_keyref_load_by_id() was called with an invalid index ID.

# Fatal error, trying to create instance with not enough memory */


# Input or output buffer size too large */


# SX_ERR_TOO_BIG Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_TOO_BIG -64

```



# Input or output buffer size too small */


# The given key size is not supported by the algorithm or the hardware */


# SX_ERR_INVALID_KEY_SZ Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_INVALID_KEY_SZ -66

```



# Input tag size is invalid */


# Input nonce size is invalid */


# SX_ERR_INVALID_NONCE_SIZE Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_INVALID_NONCE_SIZE -68

```



# Too many feeds were inputed */


# Input data size granularity is incorrect */


# SX_ERR_WRONG_SIZE_GRANULARITY Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_WRONG_SIZE_GRANULARITY -70

```



# Attempt to use HW keys with a mode that does not support HW keys */


# Attempt to use a mode or engine that does not support context saving */


# SX_ERR_CONTEXT_SAVING_NOT_SUPPORTED Macro

## C

```c
#define SX_ERR_CONTEXT_SAVING_NOT_SUPPORTED -72

```



# Attempt to feed AAD after input data was fed */


# Hardware cannot work anymore.



 To recover, reset the hardware.
